Stress Management
Stress is part of our regular lives; it's normal to come across unpleasant situations that cause physical and mental strain. Some of these stressors could be illnesses, heartbreak, bereavement, financial struggles, marital challenges, joblessness, work pressure, to mention a few. We all get stressed, but this could both positively or negatively affect our regular lives.
In some cases, you become stressed because you are having a healthy reaction to a situation. Healthy stress gives you that pressure that stretches your body to accomplish tasks that you ordinarily would have been sluggish about. It helps you discover and harness qualities and abilities you never thought existed. It is usually short-lived; once the task is completed, the pressure fades off.
Unhealthy or negative stress, on the other hand, makes you disorganized; and you might end up not completing that task effectively. It is not easy to manage, and doesn't go away easily. It is harmful to the body because it takes a toll on the physical, mental, and emotional health of its victim—leaving the individual in a despicable state. Chronic stress, if unchecked, can lead to high blood pressure, heart disease, obesity, insomnia, and the likes.
How do you know you are experiencing chronic stress? When you notice muscle tension or pain, headache, fatigue, stomach upset, anxiety, restlessness, lack of motivation, loss of focus, memory loss, anger, touchiness, depression, food binging or picking, drug or alcohol misuse, and social withdrawal, then know that your stress is chronic.
The ability to handle or control stress is called stress management. Stress condition can be frustrating; it is, therefore, necessary that you learn to prevent it and then know something about managing stress. Learn techniques that will help you live a near stress free, happy, and healthy life.
Here are various ways to deal with stress
(1) Identify your personal triggers (stressors) and avoid them.
(2) Learn to relax your muscles by taking a warm bath.
(3) Practice deep breathing.
(4) Plan your time and manage your resources well.
(5) Eat and sleep well.
(6) Slow down when necessary—take a break.
(7) Avoid procrastination.
(8) Have time for hobbies—relaxation.
(9) Talk about your problems and try to go easy on yourself.
And if all these do not help, please see a doctor.
