Healthy Aging
According to the World Health Organizaation (WHO), healthy aging is “the process developing and maintaining the, functional ability that enables wellbeing in older age.” It is a holistic approach to life concentrated on the mind, body and soul. Undoutedly, aging is inevitable because it's part of life. However, it's up to you to make the most of it. Aging is not necessarily a burden as some people think. Of course, as we grow older, we experience different changes to our circumstances in life, including retirement, the loss of loved ones, loneliness, lack of money, and so on. How we handle and grow from these challenges go along way in helping us stay healthy as we grow old.
Healthy aging is often maintained by good habits. These habits are important to help support a healthy-aging lifestyle. To maintain a healthy-aging lifestyle, therefore, you must eat well, as this helps to reduce the risk of diseases such as cancer, diabetes, heart disease, etc. More so, increase your intake of fruits and vegetable. To make it realistic, you can plan ahead to make healthy meals and use menu planner in order to make choices of healthy food.
Moreover, after the age of 50, it's important you increase the intake of both calcium and vitamin D, this helps to lower the risk of osteoporosis (a disease in which the density and quality of bone are reduced producing porosity and fragility). If you can't get sufficient calcium from calcium-rich milk, you can get it from calcium supplements. Also lonliness is harmful to your health; it can sometimes lead to depression. As you grow old, stay connected with family members, friends and people around you and volunteer to help people in need.
As you age, drink sufficient water every day. If you don't, you'll be dehydrated and this can further result in dizziness, fainting, urinary, tract infections, low blood pressure and more. Eat enough fibre to avoid constipation, and enough Vitamin B12 such as fish, milk products, chicken, etc, to help build red blood cells in the body. Exercise regularly to maintain good health and lower the risk of heart disease, stroke, cancer, and so on.
Get enough sleep to improve your mood and memory. Experts recommend you gett 7-8 hours of night sleep.Always think positively rather than dwelling on the negative. Smile all the time to lower stress and surround yourself with the people that wiii boost your spirit. Furthermore, maintain oral hygiene by brushing at least twice a day, flossing, and regular dental check-ups. Aging is associated with memory lapses, so, keep your brain active by reading books and magazine, listening to music, learning new skills and taking classes. More importantly, feed your mind with God's Word. It goes a long way in keeping you healthy. FInally, take proactive measures by seeing your doctor yearly for general medical check-up and when you detect a problem.
