Check It Up
Charlotte's face went purple with rage. She couldn't imagine that her husband would end the call while she was still speaking. “What insult and disrespect! How could Benjamin hang up on me because of Mason? Why on earth should he do that? Have | become so worthless and unimportant to him?” Furious, she stormed into their bedroom and slammed the door behind her. She slid into their king-size bed and buried her face in a pillow. She remained in this position until Ben arrived.

But things didn't happen the way Charlotte had thought. Earlier in the day, Ben had gone to church for their usual Saturday preparatory class for Sunday school teachers. When the meeting ended, Mason, his close pal of many years, volunteered to give him a lift back home since he hadn't come in his car. On their way home, Mason's car suddenly broke down in the middle of a traffic logjam. There was bedlam. While those driving behind him yelled at him for heightening the congestion, some mocked him for driving an old car model, and a few others mouthed solutions at him. Ben and Mason made frantic efforts to fix the problem but to no avail. Eventually, with the help of some well-hearted pedestrians, they pushed the car out of the road toa safe place.
It was While they were pushing the car that Charlotte's call came in.
“Hello, Dear!” Ben had answered briskly, wiping sweat from his face with his left hand.
“Beniamin! Where are you?” Charlotte had responded angrily at the other end.
“Benjamin?” Ben queried, puzzled at his wife's tone and choice of name. Charlotte rarely calls him by his full name except something was wrong, “What's wrong, Honey? Is everything all right?"
“I mean where are you, Benjamin? I'm very sure the meeting ended exactly two hours ago and up till now, you aren't anywhere near this house!”
“Oh! Honey, I'm so sorry. I'm with Ma—"
“I knew it!” Charlotte cut in before her husband could finish. I know it's the usual long chat you two have whenever you're together," she retorted hastily.
“No, we not what you think...” Ben's battery went flat.
Ben tried in vain to restart his phone. He asked for Mason's phone, but he wasn't with it. He had left it at home while hurrying to the meeting. When there was no other way to reconnect with his wife, he resigned to fate and joined the others who were still pushing the car. When they succeeded in pushing the car to a nearby gas station and got a mechanic to work on the car, Ben encouraged his friend and left for home.
“Honey, I'm home,” Ben announced as he walked into their spacious living room, but there was no response. He walked into the kitchen, but when he saw no one there, he headed for their bedroom. “Are you asleep already?” He asked, moving closer to his wife who was still lying on the bed. He sat on the bed and touched her shoulder.
"Look, Sweetheart, I sincerely apologize for coming home this late; the situation was beyond my control. I had never pushed a car for that long in my life.” Charlotte shrugged and turned her face to the other side of the room. When his wife didn't reply him, Ben sensed that she was still upset. He smiled and adjusted himself on the bed. Slowly, he narrated everything that happened to her.
After listening to her husband's explanation, charlotte was embarrassed and ashamed. She couldn't even turn to face him. How could she, when she had been so consumed with anger that she hadn't even prepared anything for supper? She had assumed that her husband had intentionally delayed his coming, but now it turned out not to be true.
How wrong we can be when we assume things and make hasty conclusions without first checking them uo. More often than not, such disposition could cause friction in relationships.
