The Mischief Markers
Kate and Mrs. Smith are both members of the same church who loved to stay up-to-date with happenings in every family in the church. After a Sunday morning service, they hung around the church premises, chatting about a sister who turned down a brother's proposal. Minutes later, Kate noticed Luna, the Pastors daughter, a few metres away. “Is that not Pastor Lance's girl with a boy?” Kate asked Mrs. Smith, who nodded in agreement. “Can you see she's so absorbed in whatever he is saying to her? I have a feeling she is in a relationship with him," Kate concluded as they walked away.
At the next women's meeting in church everyone was asked to raise prayer requests for the congregation to pray on. When it was Kate's turn, she burst into tears as she started. The women were taken aback by the sudden outburst. “Dear sisters, I want us to unite our faith and pray young people in our church, especially the Pastor's children so that they will not sully their fathers ministry,” she began rather dramatically. “Hmmm what I witnessed a few days ago calls for prayer. Luna has a boyfriend and she is not ashamed of it. Let's pray that she will not destroy the ministry her father has worked hard to build over the years.” The Pastor's wife was mystified. She could not believe what she and everyone present had heard.
Again, Kate brought up some other prayer points for some troubled families. In the process, she revealed some private matters these families were facing, and raised them in the guise of prayer points. Members of those families were enraged. Like the Pastor's wife, they felt humiliated. The meeting eventually descended into a commotion, leaving the majority with no choice but to leave. Some were sad, some angry, and some others could not just believe their ears. What was supposed to be a prayer meeting, ended in confusion, because of Kate's mischievous attitude.
Well, it later turned out that the young man Pastor Lance's daughter was conversing with was her cousin who was new to the neighbourhood. The Pastor's younger sister and her family had recently relocated and it was the first time they had seen each other in over two years.
Mischief markers are the attitudes, behaviours, characters that can be used to recognize or identify mischief-makers. These traits or characteristics include slander, lie, malice, hostility, blackmail, disrespect, contempt, unruliness, backbiting, talebearing, gossip, jealousy, violence, maligning, insubordination, and others.
These mischief-makers do not have the fear of God in their heart; they have drifted from God and His Word. As a result, they allow their thoughts to wander and their tongues to wag about things that are neither true nor relevant to them.
