Swimming Against The Tides
Fend and Feed Conglomerate can apt'y be described as a den of lions. For the five years I worked there, it had seemed like I was walking through a valley of darkness. Corruption and manipulations of all kinds are the order of the day and almost everyone was a part of it. I was daily confronted with different forms of invitation to join the train. On one occasion, a colleague tried to persuade me to partner with him in reducing the content of a particular liquid product. He suggested that we dilute it with water, seal it up and then repackage it for sale. But I refused. I couldn't bring myself to compromise my faith and sacrifice my salvation on the altar of temporary gain. From that day forward, he hated and avoided me like a plague. It was a struggle to swim against the tide.

But the real battle began when I was promoted and made the head of the warehouse and store. The first challenge came when the management imported over a hundred thousand drums of a particular product and manipulated the invoice, so they wouldn't pay the right import duty. I was asked to sign, but being aware of their, dubious act, I refused and all hell was let loose. I was disparaged, insulted and queried by the management. I was given the option to either sign the fraudulent invoice or step down as the head  of the department. I was heartbroken. It was one of the saddest days of my life. But as a born-again Christian, I knew I couldn't follow the multitude to do evil. So, I willingly agreed to step down. Two weeks after they achieved their evil intention, they reinstated me. But it didn't take long before another battle began.

Two of my subordinates absconded from the company after conspiring to steal eight hundred drums of vegetable oil. Since I was the head of the department, I was arrested as a prime susoect by the police. It was a difficult period for me and my family. After unjustly spending 15 days behind bars, the perpetrators were apprehended and I was released. But rather than apologize and compensate me for the unjust way I was treated, tle management requested that I double the number of the stolen product so the company would make additional money from the insurance company. I was shocked beyond words. When I refused, I was given a three-month suspension without pay.
While I was away, government officials visited the company for an inspection exercise and discovered some sharp practices that had been going on in the company. I wasn't even aware that at the close of work each day, with permission from the management, some members of staff would go to the store to change labels, mix expired products with unexpired ones, and dilute the original content of some products to increase their quantity. The officials discovered all of these and sealed the company.
A few days later, the government ordered the immediate destruction of the contaminated products and fined the company heavily. Surprisingly, the same official returned the following day saying that the fine has been reduced and the new amount would now be paid into a personal account, instead of the government's account earlier instructed. It was unbelievable. The company danced to the tune of the corrupt officials and the comapny was reopened after two months. when I resumed for work after serving out my suspension, the management invited me for a meeting. There, I was handed a disengagement letter for not having the company's interest at heart.
I got a new job in another company three months later. Although, it's a new comapny, nobody forces me to indulge in any illegal dealings and I am grateful to God for this.
