Health Benefits of Pineapple
Pineapple, scientifically known as Ananas Comosus, is a tropical fruit filled with diverse nutrients. Its rough and scaly skin grows from a cluster of berries that fuse together around a central, fibrous core. When ripe its green colour changes to white or yellow with a distinctive aroma and a sweet juicy flavour. Pineapple can be consumed fresh, dried, canned as juice, or as a condiment in several recipes. One fresh pineapule about 100 grams contains 50g of calories, 86% of water, 0.5 gram of protein, 13.1g carbs, 9.9g of sugar, 1.4g of fiber,0.1g of fat, 0.2g of omega-3, 0.2g of omega-6 and more nutrients.
There are lots health and nutritional benefit in pineapple. The carbohydrate present in pineapple is typically simple sugar like fructose, sucrose and glucose. A cup of pineapple juice contains 2 grams and about 100% insoluble fiber. Insoluble fibers reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes and aid healthy digestion. Pineapple has abundant vitamins and minerals. For instance, one cup of pineapple juice contains 132% of vitamin C, and this is an antioxidant vitamin that is required for immune function and healthy skin. Copper is another essential mineral in pineapple, and it plays many important functions in the body being a co-factor in the red blood cells formation. Pineapple is equally enriched with folate (B9), which is very important for tissue growth and normal cell function, especially during pregnancy. Eating pineapple builds and fortifies bones because of its manganese content. It equally ensures healthy gum and teeth.
Above all, pineapple is the only source of bromelain (a protein extract derived from the stems pineapples). Bromelain prevents cancer (colon cancer to be precise), boosts immune system, reduces inflammation, improves wound healing, prevents diarrhea and enhances gastrointesinal tract health. It aiso ights asthma and hypersensitive airway diseases, prevents and subdues cough and cold. Anthocyanins, a very powerful antioxidant that reduces the risk of heart disease, Macular Degeneration (a health condition responsible for the loss of vision) and relieves arthritis, can also be found in pineapples.
However, you need to know that pineapple may cause mouth and teeth irritation and in some cases, abdominal pains, vomiting, etc. It can prevent accumulation of blood platelets, and may have a blood thinning effect. So, people on blood thinners should seek a physician's advice before eating pineapple.
