Are His Perspectives Right?
Alex, the child of a prominent government official, was involved in a bullying incident. He cornered a junior student and beat him to a pulp. Stanford witnessed the whole scene. Stanford witnessed the whole scene. He tried stopping Alex but couldn't. So he alerted some teachers who came to the junior student's rescue. It was too late; Alex had beaten the boy black and blue. He was writhing in agony, his school uniform soaked in his blood. When questioned, Stanford explained all that transpired to the teachers, but the fact that the child involved was the son of a politician, the teachers became afraid of what might happen if the truth about what happened was told. After conversing among themselves, they instructed Stanford to keep mute and not speak about what he saw.

By the morning of the next day, a crowd had gathered in front of the Head Taecher's office. The mother of the boy was assaulted was hysterical; she wanted to see the student who had bullied her son. But the teachers told her a different version of the story. They painted a picture of her son being the one at fault, but she refused to believe them. She told them her son had never been involved in a fight, let alone assault an older student who happened to be the child of a government official. When the school dilly-dallied, she began to make scene.

Alex's parents heard about the situation in the school and became angry. They felt the woman was out to soil their reputation. So, they decided to go to the school and put the records straight. But because they wanted to create a scene, they invited newsmen to the school.

The students were interviewed and they all had the same story. Stanford had been warned and threatened to stick to the story the teachers told. No one was allowed to say exactly what happened. Stanford was perplexed. His parents had taught him to stand for honesty and integrity at all times. Now, he wasn't sure what to do: should he obey his teachers and lie about what happened or should he obey his parents and speak the truth? When he was called in for questioning, his heart raced. At first, he was quiet; he closed his eyes and prayed for God's help. When he spoke, he narrated everything as it happened.

The Head Teacher was disappointed. He tried to salvage the situation but he couldn't find the words refute Stanford's position. Alex's parents were embarrassed. They couldn't stand the media. They hurried to their car and drove off. When some journalists asked why he chose to say the truth Stanford replied that his parents had taught him to always uphold the truth no matter the circumstance.
