Every Idle Word
The pathetic story of the Edwards began when Mr. Edward lost his job and had to fall back on his wife's superstore. Although he had established the store when he was still gainfully employed, he named it after his wife.
One year into the smooth and progressive joint running of the business, Nancy's close friend, Margaret, began talking to her about the danger of letting her husband continue working in her store. She cooked up lots of lies about Mr. Edward, claiming he spends recklessly anytime Nancy was away. She poisoned her mind about being the breadwinner of the family at her age. She kept pressurizing Nancy to stop Edward from coming to the store until her words got the better part of her and she began acting funny towards her husband.
When Edward noticed the change, he enquired what the matter was, his wife snubbed him. The situation grew worse and Edward did not know what to do. One day, he called his wife to know what was going on, but she spoke out angrily, “Edward, go get a job! We cannot keep depending on small store for everything. We will wreck it, and I would not want that to happen. Please, I want you to stop resuming at the store with me.”
Mr. Edward was shocked. he could not believe his wife had just said that to him. Tears welled up in his eyes as he stood motionless, staring at his wife. “So, Nancy, am I now a burden to you?” he asked, his voice breaking. “Remember that everything you do in the family today was done solely by me until my dismissal. In fact, I opened and funded the business in question. I revitalized it even after you mismanaged it several times. But it is fine; I am the gullible one here. Establishing this business in your name was my biggest mistake.” With that, Mr. Edward stormed out of the house, slamming the door hard behind him.
He avoided the store after that incident, and his wife was quite pleased. On Margaret's advice, she also began  to mistreat him. She would frequently leave for the store with no money or food at home for her husband. She and her children would sometimes eat supper at the store before returning home, so that there would be no meal for her husband that night.
Each time he had tried to call Nancy to order, she had always rebuffed him. When he saw that Nancy was determined not to change, one fateful morning, Mr Edward walked out of his house without his wife and children, and never returned.
Margaret her friend had long gone too. She did not even tell Nancy where she was going. Nancy felt lost, lonely, and broken. She had become the foolish woman who pulled down her house by following the advice of an idle talker.
How destructive idle words can be! They are like fire set on a dry bush during harmattan. The resulting destruction is better imagined than experienced. Beware of idle words!
The Free Dictionary defines idle words as "empty, rhetoric or insincere or exaggerated talk.” They are careless, vain, worthless words that are not beneficial to anyone.
