Prevent The Unthinkable
I was 15 years old and six weeks pregnant when I accepted christ as my Lord and Saviour. I grew up with my parents who attended church regularly. Although they were religious and liked church, their lives didn't reflect some of the teachings I had heard taught in  church. They quarreled regularly and dad could go days without talking to mum in the house. The worst of it all was that anytime they fought, my siblings and I would always be at the receiving end; they were the two proverbial elephants and we the grass that suffered when they fought. As time went on, they didn't really seem to care much about us but themselves and their church activities. It was then I started growing apart from my parents.

I started living a double life. At home and in church I was one person and the rest of the week in school, I was a very different person. I skipped classes regularly to attend parties and events with friends. I thought I have found a new life where I could forget all the pains at home. This went on for two years until one Friday. I still remember like it was yesterday. I was returning from the hospital where I had gone for a medical test. Some days before then, I had thrown up repeatedly both at home and at school. Gladly, my parents wer too busy to notice. At first, I thought it was a stomach problem until the doctor gave his verdict: "You're six weeks pregnant," the doctor said. Then he walked away, leaving me speechless.

The news shattered my world. I wanted the ground to open and swallow me. How would I live with the shame? What would members of my parents' church think of me? I couldn't control the tears that streamed down my eyes as the questions gnawed at my broken heart. As I headed home sobbing, I wanted to die. I just wanted to end my miserable life once and for all. I was walking on the highway with my eyes closed, hoping that a vehicle would come out from anywhere and knock the life out of me. It was the only relief I sought. I heard cars blare their horns and speed past. Some drivers obscenities at me. I didn't care.

Suddenly, I heard someone call my name. Fear gripped me. I opened my eyes and turned around. The voice came from inside a car that had pulled up just ahead of me. A young girl alighted from the car and ran towards me, followed by a middle-aged woman. It was Nicole, one of the most brilliant students in my class. Although I admired her a lot, I had never related with her. She was different from every other girl in our class. She seemed to have such a passion for God that I had never seen before. I knew that whatever she had I wanted it, but I just didn't have the courage to tell her. I Felt that my life was so dirty compared to hers.

They asked me some questions but I couldn't answer them. I was s lost. They drove me home and invited me to their house the following day. I went, not really knowing what to expect. As God would have it, that day turned out to be the most memorable day in my life. I experienced God like I never had before. For the first time in my life, I felt his presence as I talked with Nicole and her parents. They led me to Christ and assured me that my getting pregnant wasn't the end of God's plan for my life. It's been two years now and I'm still growing in the Lord. Through Nicole's parents, God has also brought my parents and siblings into His saving grace. Now I strive to show other young people the same love of Christ that I experienced so that they too might have thier lives changed.
