Balance Your Roles
I had always believed I was an energetic and highly organized woman. As a bachelorette, I had the opportunity to assist my parents and I seized it big time. Our family was small and I was the administrator of everything except money. I enjoyed doing all the chores. My parents were always happy and proud of me, and I could see that joy and satisfaction in their eyes every time they talked about me. Dad often showered me with praises and applauded my sense of organization and neatness. His words usually make me happy and confident that I could handle anything including the challenges of marriage.

However, I noticed that each time he praises me, my mom would nod and laugh sarcastically. One day after hard probing, she opened up on her pessimism.

“Cherish, my dear,” she said, “I will sing my compliments when you get married and you're able to successfully balance all your roles as a wife, mother, career woman, and still maintain your spiritual fervency without breaking down or quitting.”

“Oh! Is that it?” I responded coldly. “Mom, shouldn't let that bother you. If I can single-handedly manage this house successfully, I'll certainly manage mine when I get there,” I concluded with all optimism. She nodded in her characteristic gentle manner.

One year later, I got my dream job and resumed with the company three weeks after my wedding. Two weeks into the job, I was confirmed pregnant. It was my
first pregnancy. I began to, experience certain dramatic changes in my body that made me feel I wasn't my real self anymore. I didn't know that the reality of all I've read about pregnancy will be so severe. Most times, I felt so weak that I couldn't even get off the bed, much less fix breakfast or do my routine chores. My pregnancy experience will remain indelible in my

When I put to bed, mom came around and was with us for three months. Life was good and it was as if I should have babies every month. But when she left and I resumed working at the company after my maternity Jeave, I was rudely awakened to how complex my roles had become. I had to grapple with nursing my baby, taking care of the home, my husband and attending to my work. My prayer life waned significantly and my singing ministry died a natural death too. Even mom and dad gradually faded from my memory. I no longer had time to visit or even call them.

Before I could say jack, I took in again. The baby arrived and my roles increased tremendously. At this point, I lost my personality entirely. I became a sadist; the burden of my workload was too heavy on me. I was simply not meeting up with any of my responsibilities, even though I worked my fingers to the bone daily. I became nag; I nagged at my busy husband who was actually to assist. I berated my poor innocent children at the slightest provocation. I lost my appetite too; I would rather go for junks than prepare healthy meals. Did I even have time for that? Before I knew it, I became sickly. I was dying of exhaustion.

An incident I will never forget in my life happened one Thursday evening. Usually, I'd drive down from my office to my children's school to pick them up. So, when we got we got home that day, I decided to bathe before preparing them something to eat, after which we'll do their homework and then head to church for the midweek service. While I was still trying to figure out how to juggle the whole thing within the little time I had, my five-year-old Jolie, who had complained of a stomach upset, threw up on the three-sitter sofa and splashed the contents all over.

I lost it. “Jolie!” I yelled at her. “What's the meaning of this? Why didn't you run to the restroom?” I felt tears well up in my eyes. I was distraught, confused and overwhelmed. I lost all my sense of organization. I didn't know where to start from. Should I clean up the mess first, then feed them, do their homework, after which I get them dressed, and we all go to church or should I just fix the supper and let everyone go to bed? I was perplexed. | threw myself on a sofa and began to cry out my frustration. Many thoughts rushed my mind that day. I thought about quitting my job, moving back to my parent's house or dumping the kids with them while I concentrate on my career. As I ruminated on all these tearfully, my mom's words came ringing in my head. It was then it dawned on me that there is a whole lot of difference between one's life as a bachelorette and as a married working mom.
