Health Benefits of Snails
Snails are the largest Mollusc subgroup, containing 10,000 species and 400 living families. They are in every habitat, underwater and on the land. Snails are the common name given to a member of a class of molluscs gastropda. They are harmless creatures and they have many names according to cultures, ethnic groups, tribes and dialects. Although snails may be one of the slowest creatures on earth, they have astounding health benefits.
Generally, snails contain vitamins A, E, B1, B3 ond B6. Vitamin A is essential for the proper function of the eye. Vitamin E acts as antioxidant while vitamin B1, B3, B6, are vital vitamins that help to prevent and control diabetes. Snails are rich in vitamin B12, which helps in the production of red blood cells, keeps the nervous system healthy, releases energy from food eaten and processes folic acid. Snails are low in calories and have a very high amount of protein, which is essential for building and repairing muscles and worn-out tissues in the body. They also serve as ideal weight watchers because they are low in calories and are good sources of protein. Also, the slime found in snails is beneficial for the treatment of skin diseases because it is extremely rich in allantoin, collagen, and elastin.
Snails are also good sources of iron needed for building red blood cells and transporting energy to the body. Note that the lack of iron, which helps the body to maintain normal blood pressure, regular heartbeat in the body, can result in anaemia and extreme fatigue. Selenium found in snails helps to keep the immune system healthy and protects cells from damage. Snails are a great source of calcium orthophosphate, a chemical substrate used to cure kidney diseases.
More so, snails contain glycoprotein which helps in cancer; copper compounds which helps to heal injury and prevent heart disorder; Omega-3 fatty acids which assist in the development of the brain and memory of children, prevent heart diseases and lower high cholesterol levels. Snails are also, high in potassium and low in sodium, thereby, making them good for maintaining blood pressure levels and they also reduce the risk of stroke, heart and kidney disease.
In addition to all these benefits, snails are tasty, delicious and nutritious. You can prepare them in any way you like. They can be fried, boiled or roasted, and you can eat them with all sorts of vegetables and food.
