Plastic, according to Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary, is “a light strong material that is produced through chemical process and can be formed into shpaes when heated.” They are used to produce materials of different shapes and sizes, such as plastic bags, food storage containers, cups, cutlery, bottles, shoes to mention but a few. Over the years, plastics have proved to be very useful, especially in food and drinks production and packaging. Most ties people, people often get food processed, packaged, shipped, and reheated in plastic containers. Most drinks such as water, milk, juice and soft drinks are often packaged in plastic bottles.
Although plastics make eating, storing, and distribution of food and drinks much easier, recent studieis have shown that plastics do not only
act as pollutants to our environment, they are also very dangerous to human health. This is as a result of their chemical composition.
Generally, most plastics contain Bisphenol A (BPA); a material used in manufacturing them in order to make them durable. This chemical has adverse effects on human health. Health challenges such as cancer, indigestion, ulcer, skin diseases, liver dysfunction, birth defect of male and female genitals, obesity, neurological problems like attention deficit, vision failure, etc., are some of the dangers of additive use of plastics.
Apparently, it's almost impossible to completely do without plastic products, but we can reduce their purchase and use. Hence, to reduce exposure to plastics, these suggestions will be helpful. Use glass or stainless water bottle instead of disposable water bottle; reusable grocery bags instead of plastic bags. Put an end to foods that are packaged in plastic bags and use glass or stainless steel for food storage in place of plastic storage container. Moreover, don't use plastics in the microwave and avoid putting hot food or drinks into them. Remember, ‘it's better and less expensive to prevent diseases than to cure them; avoid exposing yourself to the danger of using plastics.
