Living With Eternity In View
“I am sorry for my outburst yesterday, please forgive me,” Asher said in a subdued tone. Marjorie was taken aback. She did not expect an apology from Asher. After studying Asher for a while to be sure that all was well, she nodded in response. Even after Asher had returned to her office, Marjorie still could not believe she had actually heard Asher apologize. She was curious to know what had happened to her colleague.
For Marjorie, Asher had been a bone in the throat. She had taken to spreading false information about her and her colleagues to gain favour with their boss. Even when confronted, she would always defend the lies with a straight face. So, you imagine how gobsmacked Marjorie was by her sudden shift in attitude.
When some of her other co-workers heard what had happened, they taunted Asher. Some even tried to get her to say something, but she just smiled and moved on. Marjorie, perplexed, approached Asher one day during lunch and inquired about what had prompted the change in her behaviour. Asher smiled. She knew that sooner or later, she would have to explain to her colleagues what had happened to her. After sighing deeply, she narrated her encounter with one of her former neighbours during her church's outreach programme some weeks earlier. She described it as a “wake-up call.”
“I went to a stall with a friend to tell the lady there about Christ's love, but when she saw me, she burst out laughing. Bemused, I moved closer to understand the reason for her laughter, only to discover she was a former neighbour of mine. My heart jumped into my mouth. When my started talking to her about the Gospel, tiie lady dismissed her with a sneer.vShe then called the attention of the other women present and began telling them how unfit I was to hold the Bible, let alone preach to others when I needed the Gospel myself. I felt terrible and wished the ground would swallow me up right there.
“When I realized she was not going to stop, I spoke up to my defence, but that was a huge blunder on my part. She told the onlookers about how I gossiped and spread rumours about people. I had no idea how bad it was until she mentioned it. My friend was embarrassed and disgusted. She hurriedly left the scene, leaving me there all alone like a lost fowl.
“When I arrived home, I cried. I had never been so disgraced all my life. A few days later, my pastor summoned me. He was  not pleased with the situation. He scolded me and expressed how disappointed he was that I had not been living as a Christian should. He pointed out that if the Rapture had taken place while I was in that stall, my lifestyle would have prevented me from going with the Lord. He advised me to change and become a true Christian. So, right there in his office, he lead me to Christ. He and his wife have stayed in touch with me ever since. I have really learnt my lessons. My utmost desire  right now is for my action and character to truly represent Christ,” she concluded.
“Wow!” Marjorie exclaimed. “That was some story. It is no surprise then that you have changed indeed.” Marjorie took a long pause before she added, “This is a good thing, and I hope it continues.”
As professing Christians, we should be more concerned about living right because our stay here on earth is temporal. God has promised us a better home in Heaven when our work on earth is done and time is ended. But to make it there at last, we must be watchful and deal with all mischiefs or wrongdoings in our lives. We must live a life worthy of our profession; a life lived with eternity in view.
