The Miracle Of Growing Up
Karina watched excitedly as Jasmine, her daughter, walked down the aisle with her heartthrob. It was a joyful and fulfilling moment for her. If anyone had told her twenty five years ago that things would work out beautifully for her daughter eventually, she would have received it with a pinch of salt. Her husband, Jasmine's father, walked away from their marriage when Jasmine was only two weeks old and never returned. Karina a was heartbroken. She was left to raise little Jasmine all alone.

For Jasmine, growing up wasn't a walk in the park. She began battling the vicissitudes of life just after she was born at 25 weeks as a preemie. The doctors said she had only 10 percent chance of surviving 4 childhood. Her lungs were underdeveloped and she vad a breathing problem right from day one. On many ocassions during her primary school days, she would wake by in the middle of the night having a hard time breathing. She had a close shave with death three nights before her fifth birthday when Karina had to resuscitate her five times in the middle of the night before eventually being able to take her to the hospital through the help of a kind neighbour.

As she grew up, Jasmine also struggled to overcome speech disorder. It took her a longer time to read and other kids made fun of her difficulty in pronouncing certain words. Karina got her daughter a speech therapist and spent countless nights teaching her to read. It was such a daunting and traumatic exercise that she went to bed most nights crying and praying that God would intervene heal Jasmine of all her troubles.

Karina did everything she could to make sure her daughter went to high school but things didn't get any easier. In her fifth grade, Jasmine had to get reading glasses because she couldn't read the board. She almost went blind but for a miracle. Jasmine was resilient. She endured so much pain and suffering, yet she was determined never to lose hope or give in to depression. When she gained admission to college, she decided to be a neurosurgeon. She believed that she had survived so much because God had a plan for her life—to be a blessing to the world.

As Karina watched her daughter at the altar, she felt fulfilled as tears welled up inner eyes. While others sawa a beautiful, happy neurosuraeon getting married, Karina saw a miracle. Here was a young lady many didn't think would make anything of her life but had survived by her sheer determination, the support and endurance of a loving mother and the miracle of God's exceeding grace.

Taking responsibility for every aspect of your children’s health, education, and well-being makes you a good parent. A prior knowledge of the peculiarities each stage of their spiritual, physical, mental, and emotional growth prepares you to be a blessing to them and they in turn a blessing to you and humanity. This underscores the need for every parent to understand the various stages of child growth and development and their peculiarities for successful parenting.
