Breast Cancer
According to the American Cancer Society, "Breast cancer is a type of cancer that starts in the breast. Cancer starts when cells begin to grow out of control." Cancer occurs when breast cells multiply and grow abnormally. It is this excessive cell growth that causes cancer. “Breast cancer cells usually form a tumor that can often be seen on an x-ray or felt as a lump.” Although men can get breast cancer too, it almost entirely occurs in women, and it is the most common cancer in women after skin and lung cancer.
Signs and symptoms of breast cancer may include a breast lump or thickening that feels different from the surrounding tissue and has developed recently (however, not all lumps are cancerous), breast pain, swelling in all or part of your breast or under your arm, a change in the size, shape or appearance of a breast, changes to the skin over the breast, such as dimpling (a nipple discharge other than breast milk), a newly inverted nipple, peeling, scaling, crusting or flaking of the pigmented area of skin surrounding the nipple (areola) or breast skin, redness or pitting of the skin over the breast, like the skin of an orange. These symptoms don't automatically mean you have breast cancer but if you notice a lump or other changes in your breast, see a doctor immediately for a prompt evaluation.
Breast cancer is divided into stages 0-4. In stage O, the cancer cells are limited to within the milk ducts and have not invaded surrounding tissues. In stage 1, the cancer cells are still relatively small and either has not spread or have spread in the lymph nodes. In stage 2, the cancer cells have become larger than in stage 1 and have begun to spread to nearby nodes. In stage 3, these tumours are larger and they have spread to either few or several lymph nodes and are growing into nearby tissues. In stage 4, the cancer has spread beyond the breast to distant organs, most often the bones, liver, brain, or lungs. Through examination, the doctor will determine the stage of cancer and the appropriate and specific treatment to give.
Factors associated with breast cancer include being female, increasing age, personal history of breast conditions/cancer, a family history of brecst cancer, inherited genes that increase cancer risk, radiction exposure, obesity, early menstruation, late menopause, giving birth at an older age, never being pregnant, postmenopausal hormone therapy, drinking alcohol, and so on.
To prevent breast cancer, you should do the following: avoid taking alcohol, engage in exercise, limit postmenopausal hormone therapy, maintain a healthy weight, choose a healthy diet and lifestyle, do regular screening and follow your doctor's preventive measures. Having regular mammograms may not prevent breast cancer but can help reduce the odds that it will go undetected. Undergoing an annual mammogram for women ages 40-44 is optional, while it is recommended for ages 45 and above. You can also do breast self-examination once a month.
Breast cancer survival rate depends on the type of breast cancer, the stage of cancer at the time it is diagnosed, age, gender, and race. The good news, however, is that breast cancer survival rates are improving as a result of breast cancer awareness programmes.
If you are having any issues relating to your breast, it's a good idea to see a doctor immediately.
