A Very Present Help
Seated on an old-fashioned sofa, with her hands supporting her jaws, Lois couldn't stop the questions running through her mind. “When will all these end? How do I cope this year? Is this how I will continue to go back and forth?” she deeply sighed. Suddenly, a light tap on her shoulders jolted her to reality. One of her favourite songs — Be still my soul, the Lord is on thy side — was playing softly in the background. Her daughter wanted her to listen.
Lois, a wife, mother of three amazing children and a grandmother to an adorable five-year-old darling, bore the burden of her family on her fragile shoulders. Her husband, Jayden, had been sick for some time, and lived on drugs for survival. Since her first two children took the responsibility of seeing to the family's needs, Lois had to resign from her work to be by her husband's sickbed.
Jayden was diagnosed with severe pneumonia and Type II diabetes. Not too long after, he had stroke, which limited his movement. This affected the family’s finance as well as the bond in the home. Everyone took turns to wait on him. This brought discomfort to him, and made him feel like a burden to his family members. He couldn't help sinking into depression. Lois didn't know how to help, except to manage the home, and ensured he took his medications at the right time. She was mentally and physically drained.
As if that wasn't enough, her only son got involved in an auto crash; he survived only by a hair's breadth. He too was also hospitalized in the intensive care unit. Lois’ world was tumbling like a pack of cards, right before her eyes. She didn't know how much she could take. She felt she had had enough.
She kept journeying round her usual circle of problems. As her daughter called her attention to that song, a glimmer of hope shone within her. The singer hit the right notes as the lyrics penetrated her aching heart. The singer was encouraging her to “Be still and know that He is God.” She broke down and wept uncontrollably. Her daughter came around to enquire what the matter was, but no answer was given. They both wept for some minutes. Following ihat, she prayed for forgiveness, and reconciled herself to God; after which; she felt peace flooding through her soul.
Due to her anguish, she had stopped attending her local assembly. But after the episode, she started attending once a week. In one of such meetings, the pastor encouraged the congregation to acknowledge God as their Refuge and Strength. As he mentioned that, Lois suddenly felt a strong sense of assurance washing through her being. It felt like God was standing right there, holding her shoulders and whispering to her that everything will be taken care of. Even before the sermon ended, Lois was already in worship mode: praising God for what He is about to do.
Dear reader, the current realities in the society and the world at large are generally enough to make your heart fail. However, Psalm 125:2 says, “As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people from henceforth and for ever." Rest assured, God is in control, and he cannot be taken by surprise. He is a great Helper in life's negative situations.
