Kept From All Onslaughts
One day, while preparing to bake some biscuits for dessert, Grandma Elliot noticed they were out of ingredients; so, she sent Nancy to a nearby store to get them. Nancy ran to the store, full of life. Outside the store, she noticed a van was carelessly parked near the entrance of the store. The driver might be drunk, she thought to herself. As she entered the store, she instantly felt something wasn't right; but she couldn't put her finger on it. She saw two men scurrying about, but paid no attention to them; she assumed they were the owners of the deserted van outside the store. As she got the needed items and went to the counter to pay, she noticed the cashier looked like she had just seen a ghost. She attempted to pay and ask questions, but the cashier was giving her signals she couldn't understand. Nancy gave her a puzzled look, and before she could say anything, she was rounded up by the two men, along with the cashier and the vault. They were led to the waiting van; as soon as they got in, they zoomed off at an incredible speed. Nancy was terrified; she wondered what would happen to her. Who is going to inform granny that I have been kidnapped?
As many fearful thoughts ran through her mind, Nancy pulled several stunts in an attempt to catch the attention of onlookers; but no one seemed to notice her. She recalled one of her sessions with her grandmother, during which she had a nightmare; she recalled some Bible verses that her grandmother insisted she memorized. They struck her like lightning bolts, and she mumbled the words under her breath. Gradually, her voice became audible and loud enough; and with time, her fears began to fade. The more her kidnappers told her to shut up, the louder she screamed the Scripture at the kidnappers. Her words were clear, and they were delivered with fiery strength and vigour. “The Lord is my portion; the Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked, even my enemies and my foe came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumble and fell.” She said.
She kept doing this until they came to a gas station. Fortunately, the station's attendant noticed the uneasiness of the driver and a child quoting Scriptures. He sensed there was something about the whole scene. Soon after the van drove off, the attendant contacted the local security agency; and the van was stopped by patrol officers not long after it left the gas station and they were rescued.
The daily news on insecurity and various ills in our society has kept both individuals and government on their toes; and people are constantly worried about the safety of their lives, especially those of children. But as Christian parents, rest assured that God is able to keep your children safe.
